## [Patch-Based Discriminative Learning for Remote Sensing Scene Classification](https://www.techrxiv.org/articles/preprint/A_Discriminative_Neighborhood-Based_Collaborative_Learning_for_Remote_Sensing_Scene_Classification/16441593)
#### Authors: Usman Muhammad, Md. Ziaul Hoque, Wang Weiqiang and Mourad Oussalah

#### Journal: [Remote Sensing](https://www.mdpi.com/journal/remotesensing)
##

### Abstract
Recent Deep Learning (DL) techniques in scene classification have literally swept away hand-crafted (low-level) approaches. Although convolutional neural networks (CNNs) can deal with a large amount of data, their performance remains limited due to the inter-class similarity and the intra-class diversity among scene categories. Therefore, considering the spatial dependencies among different image regions is very essential for developing explicit image representation. To alleviate this issue, the current study proposes to explore the spatial dependencies between different image regions and introduces patch-based discriminative learning (PBDL) for remote-sensing scene classification. Particularly, the proposed method employs multi-level feature learning based on small, medium, and large neighborhood regions to enhance the discriminative power of image representation. To achieve this, image patches are selected through a fixed-size sliding window and sampling redundancy, a novel concept, is developed to minimize the redundant features while sustaining the relevant features for the model. Apart from multi-level learning, we explicitly impose image pyramids to magnify the visual information of the scene images and optimize their position and scale parameters locally. Motivated by this, a local descriptor is exploited to extract multi-level and multi-scale features that we represent in terms of codewords histogram by performing k-means clustering. Finally, a simple fusion strategy is proposed to balance the contribution of individual features, and the fused features are incorporated into a Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (BiLSTM) network. Experimental results on NWPU-RESISC45, AID, UC-Merced, and WHU-RS datasets demonstrate that the proposed approach yields significantly higher classification performance in comparison with existing state-of-the-art deep learning based methods.

### Links
Preprint: https://doi.org/10.36227/techrxiv.16441593.v1
